---
title: ACEMD 3 Beta Commands
layout: default
name: ACEMD 3 Beta Documentation
description: ACEMD 3 Beta Command Documentation
---

# Introduction

The ACEMD 3 Beta input file may contain any of the commands listed below.
Each command must start on a new line and be followed by its arguments. Commands are case-insensitive, but their arguments may be case-sensitive.
Blank lines are permitted. Lines beginning with a "#" are treated as comments and ignored.

# Forcefield Configuration

## parmfile
 * Default: [none]
 The filename of an Amber PRMTOP file
## parameters
 * Default: [none]
 The filename of a CHARMM PAR file. May be specified more than once.

# Initial State
## structure
 * Default: [none]
 The filename of a CHARMM PSF file
## coordinates
 * Default: structure.pdb
	Mandatory initial system geometry in PDB format.
## binCoordinates
 * Default: [none]
	Optional initial system geometry in NAMD BINCOOR format. If specified, overrides "coordinates"
## velocities
 * Default: [none]
	Optional initial system velocity field  in NAMD BINCOOR format. If specified, overrides field generated by "temperature"
## binVelocities
 * Default: [none]
	Optional initial system velocity field  in NAMD BINCOOR format. If specified, overrides field generated by "temperature" and "velocities"
## extendedSystem
	* Default: [none]
	Filename of a NAMD XSC format file giving the periodic cell dimensions. Overrides "celldimension" and any dimensions in the "coordinates" PDB
 
## temperature
 * Default: 0.
 The temperature in Kelvin for which to generate an initial velocity field.

## celldimension
 * Default: [none]
 The dimensions of the unit cell in Angstrom. Note that the unit cell must be cuboid. Overrides any dimension given in the "coordinates" PDB.

# Output

ACEMD 3 Beta will always output "output.coor", "output.vel" and "output.xsc" at the end of a simulation. Additionally, it will periodically write out the coordinate state to an XTC format trjectory file. Note that DCD format is no longer supported.

## trajectoryFile [output.xtc]
 * Default output.xtc
 The name of the trajectory file to write to.
## trajectoryFreq 
 * Default 25000
 The  number of steps between outputting coordinates to the trajectory file

# Electrostatics
## PME
 * Default: on
	Use particle-mesh Ewald summation for long-range electrostatics.
## cutoff
 * Default:  9.
  Real-space cutoff in Angstroms for electrostatics and van der Waals.
## switching
 * Default: on
 Apply switching function to the van der Waals potential.
## switchDist
 * Default: 7.5
 Distance in Angstrom at which to begin applying the switchin function.

# Temperature Control

ACEMD 3 Beta continues to use a Langevin thermostat. Old commands with the "langevin" prefix will be converted to their new equivalents and a warning issued.

## thermostat
 * Default: off
## thermostatTemp
 * Default: 300.
## thermostatDamping
 * Default: 0.1

# Pressure Control

The barostat algorithm in ACEMD 3 Beta has changed from Berendsen to a non-virial Monte Carlo scheme. Old commands with the "berendsen" prefix will be converted to their new equivalents and a warning issued.

# barostat
 * Default: off
# barostatPressure
 * Default: 1.0
# useFlexibleCell
 * Default: False
# useConstantArea
 * Default: False
# useConstantRatio
 * Default: False


# External Forces
## PlumedFile
 * Default: [none]

# Restraints
For more details on the use of these new commands please read [Applying Restraints](/acemd3/restraints.md)
## atomRestraint
 Specify a restraining potential centred on specific atom centres. 
## groupRestraint
 Specify a restraining potential centred on a group of atoms.


# Integration
## timestep
 * Default: 4.
 The integration timestep in femtoseconds. Note that if timestep >= 2.0 then constraints will be applied to all bonded terms including an H. Additionally, if timestep >= 4.0 hydrogen mass repartitioning is performed, increasing the mass of H to 4au.

# Run Configuration
## restart
 * Default: off
 If set, attempt to restart a simulation from checkpoint files
 Restart files are always written every trajectoryFreq steps irrespective of this setting.
## minimize
 * Default: 0
 The number of energy minimization steps to perform before commencing dynamics.
## run
 * Default: 0
 The length of simulation ro run. May be specified as a number of steps or as a time if one of the suffices "us", "ns", "ps", "fs" is used.

